@brief mlpack in Google Summer of Code 2018
@author Marcus Edel
@page mlpack-in-google-summer-of-code-2018 mlpack in Google Summer of Code 2018
@date 2018-05-08 19:00:00

@section mlpack-in-google-summer-of-code-2018 mlpack in Google Summer of Code 2018

This year is shaping up to be another productive and exciting year for mlpack;
after being accepted into Google Summer of Code 2018, we received an astounding
number of applications and were able to accept 6 talented students. Here is what
they will be working on this summer:

### [Implementing Essential Deep Learning Modules](https://github.com/mlpack/mlpack/wiki/SummerOfCodeIdeas)
**by `Shikhar Jaiswal`, mentored by `Marcus Edel`**

Shikhar will pick up and extend the pieces from last year's GSoC and will work
on implementing Generative adversarial networks (GANs); enriched with a bunch of
neat features like Transposed Convolution and validate everything with some
really cool experiments.

Shikhar is a second-year undergraduate student pursuing a Bachelors of
Technology in Computer Science and Engineering at Indian Institute of
Technology, Patna, India.

\note
"If you fancy foreign made films, I'd suggest some k-movies, Oldboy, Train to
Busan and I Saw The Devil (watch the original with English subtitles). Though I
must warn, they are not for the squeamish."

### [Neural Collaborative Filtering](https://github.com/mlpack/mlpack/wiki/SummerOfCodeIdeas)

**by `Haritha S. Nair`, mentored by `Marcus Edel`**

Haritha will extend the existing collaborative filtering methods to support
neural collaborative filtering, which uses neural networks to represent complex
user-item interactions and can handle implicit feedback.

Haritha is a 3rd-year Information Technology student, currently undergoing the
final year of B.Tech, Atal Bihari Vajpayee - Indian Institute of Information
Technology and Management, Gwalior.

\note
"I love reading, mainly thrillers and mystery, currently having my annual harry
potter marathon."

### [Automated Java Binding Generator](https://github.com/mlpack/mlpack/wiki/SummerOfCodeIdeas)

**by `Yasmine Dumouchel`, mentored by `Kevin Avignon` and `Ryan Curtin`**

Yasmine will significantly improve the automatic bindings system we have in
place by writing automatically-generated Java bindings. This would allow Java
users to have access to the library while keeping the system maintenance burden
low and making addition of new bindings even more efficient.

Yasmine went to McGill University in Canada for her undergrad and will pursue
his Masters next year at the Université de Montréal.

\note
"When its grey and gloomy I watch/rewatch Silicon Valley or Rick and Morty
(which I highly recommend if you have not watched it yet!!)"

### [Variational Autoencoders](https://github.com/mlpack/mlpack/wiki/SummerOfCodeIdeas)

**by `Atharva Khandait`, mentored by `Sumedh Ghaisas`**

Atharva will design and develop a generic class to create variational
autoencoders; specifically, this class will integrate into the existing codebase
and will work both with feedforward and recurrent neural networks. In addition,
he will work on Beta VAE, Conditional Modelling and Regularization.

Atharva is an undergraduate student pursuing a Bachelors degree in Aerospace
Engineering at Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay.

\note
"Also like to watch standup comedy, it's a relatively new interest and I have
never been to an actual live show, just videos [...] my favourite is Louis CK"

### [LMNN (via LRSDP) & BoostMetric Implementation](https://github.com/mlpack/mlpack/wiki/SummerOfCodeIdeas)

**by `Manish Kumar`, mentored by `Ryan Curtin`**

Manish will first of all work on implementing LMNN on the grounds of LRSDP
solver & primal-dual interior point solver and afterwards, he will take a look
at BoostMetric which combines boosting and metric learning approaches into one
package. In addition, benchmarking will be done to verify that mlpack's
implementations are competitive with other implementations of these algorithms.

Manish is a 3rd-year undergrad at IIT (ISM) Dhanbad, India, Applied Mathematics
Dept.

\note
"Nothing beats Rick and Morty=D"

### [Alternatives to Neighborhood-Based Collaborative Filtering](https://github.com/mlpack/mlpack/wiki/SummerOfCodeIdeas)

**by `Wenhao Huang`, mentored by `Mikhail Lozhnikov`**

Wenhao will work on improving the existing CF framework, provide better rating
predictions, fast executions; packaged in a flexible API. Specifically, Wenhao
will work on data normalization, aggregation of neighbor ratings, BiasSVD,
SVD++. He will also benchmark the additions against public datasets like
MovieLens and Netflix.

Wenhao is currently a senior student at Peking University, Beijing; next
semester he will pursue a Master Degree in Computer Science at Carnegie Mellon
University.

\note
"I am a food lover"

You can find more information on each of the projects on the [Summer of Code website](https://summerofcode.withgoogle.com/organizations/4841692297953280/).

Anyway, congratulations to `Shikhar`, `Haritha`, `Yasmine`, `Atharva`, `Manish`
and `Wenhao`! The coding period starts May 14.
